I think the benefits of going to the market with a minimum viable product and from the
interactions with the customers, learning from the customers, building a product that
is getting better and better, and that they are also validating it, has huge advantages
over traditional development, in which from your idea you create a product, then you go
to the market and in many of the occasions fail.
And it is also that I do not only say it, but that people who are much smarter than us have shown it
and that they have companies that grow the most in the world, such as Zapos, for example,
that we saw.
Therefore, it is quite obvious.
However, what I also warn you is that to do it you have to break many mental structures,
many mental barriers, and I would like you not to happen to you and that you will not be dragged
for doing it as it has always been done, that you were able to be brave, perhaps.
And I'm going to go ahead and tell you the main reasons why usually, or many entrepreneurs
are not able to apply this Lean methodology and apply the concept of the minimum viable product.
One of them is that they are ashamed to go to the market with a product that is not perfect,
because the minimum viable product is not a perfect product.
The design will not be the same as the product you have in mind, it will not work as well.
And then, as I told you, they are ashamed because they have dreamed of something else, and they are
entrepreneurs, they are visionaries, their first product cannot be something that they perceive
to be shabby or unfinished.
And also, many people, in addition to shame, what happens is that they are afraid of failure.
Really, what they are afraid of, and that if you have been an entrepreneur it is very possible
that it has happened to you, you are afraid of that first contact with the customers.
It is something very natural and very human.
Then you delay it, and then, as you are afraid, what you do is try to make sure
that that first contact has greater guarantees of success.
Therefore, what you do is add features that each time is the most perfect product,
perfect from your point of view.
But I'm sure that if you've been an entrepreneur, you understand what I'm saying.
Because it's scary to go to the market with that idea you've had, with your dream,
it's scary to go to the market and nothing happens of what you had in mind.
So what you do is delay it, but it's a mistake.
What you should do is advance it to realize it as soon as possible
and to be able to pivot or iterate on your proposal.
Another of the reasons that is often argued is that
I don't want to damage my brand, I don't want to damage my reputation.
I have to start from the beginning with something that is a client experience that is wow.
Well, it's a mistake too, because to start your brand or your reputation
is worth nothing.
It will be worth something when you are able to validate that you have a proposal
that is attractive, but it's still worth nothing.
So it's more important that you learn as soon as possible
to think about taking care of that brand that is still non-existent,
that only has value in your head.
And I would also tell you that in some cases, if we get into the worst of cases
and it turns out that you go to the market with something that really damages the brand,
what you do is change it.
What you do is create another new brand and that's it, nothing happens.
Sometimes entrepreneurs are afraid that the clients are going to get angry,
because this still doesn't work well.
Well, the reality is that it can happen, in some cases,
it may be that the client gets angry, but you always have the opportunity to apologize.
And also, in many occasions, those interactions allow you to get a lot of feedback from the clients.
The other day I went to hire, in an application called BoxRun,
I went to hire a courier service inside Madrid.
And I got prices for a shipment that had to be a price of 10-15 euros,
I got crazy prices, because it had been my mistake,
but I thought it had been the application's mistake,
I had put the postal code wrong, I don't know.
Well, as I couldn't finish the process, they called me.
And I realized that the founder was calling me,
because of the way he addressed me, etc.
Well, I didn't get angry, because that application didn't work well,
on the contrary, I also thought it was very valuable
that they called me, apologized, asked me, etc.
Those interactions, for the entrepreneur, in this case,
because he was the founder of the application,
are very valuable, because they receive direct feedback from the clients.
And the first thing I did when I hung up the call with them,
I got back in and hired the service.
Well, and finally, another fear, this is very common,
I've heard it thousands of times.
And it's that they don't want to go to the market
with the least viable product, because they think,
no, they're going to copy my idea.
So what they want is to have a perfect product,
and the day they go to the market,
to blow up the market and be so big that no one can copy them.
Well, this is stupid.
It's stupid, because, to begin with,
entrepreneurs usually overestimate the idea they have in their heads.
What you have to do is not overestimate your idea,
go to the market, that the clients tell you
if what you have is powerful or not.
And don't be afraid of being copied,
because they can copy you at any time.
They will be able to copy you anyway.
If you go to the market with the finished product and you are successful,
someone will notice and try to copy you.
The most valuable thing is that you learn before everyone else.
And if you go to the market today and you start to get
very valuable information from the clients,
that learning process is faster to copy.
Therefore, don't overestimate your idea,
don't be afraid of being copied,
go to the market as soon as possible and learn as soon as possible.